# Docker images for testing Windows/Linux

## How are the Docker images used ?

The project uses AWS CodeBuild to launch tests on GitHub pull request submission, with prebuilt Docker containers stored as artifacts in ECR.

## How are the Docker images built ?

For Ubuntu, currently CodePipeline is connected via Github Webhook to a fork (dougch/aws-encryption-sdk-c:docker_codebuild) for changes.  
Once triggered, the docker containers are rebuilt in a CodeBuild project called docker_build__ubuntu1804 which uploads to ECR.  

The automation to get Windows images to build automatically is not currently implemented.  Images can also be built manually.

Mac images are not customized, but are used as-is in a GitHub Action.

## Linux Docker file layout

Each distribution folder contains a script directory (`bin`) intended for use by a build job to install dependencies and setup the docker image for future testing.
The  version folder contain a Dockerfile and buildspec.yml used by CodeBuild to generate the images.
The docker-compose.yml file allows some abstraction of installed version dependencies.  The file is generated with the `gen_compose.py` script manually when OS or dependency version changes are needed.

### What is the process for updating the Ubuntu18 docker image

- Checkout docker_codebuild
- Review docker-images/docker-compose.yml - this is where the OpenSSL version is set. This yaml is generated by hand running gen_compose.
- Review the docker-images/ubuntu/18.04/buildspec.yml - these are the main steps needed to build the images.
- Review the docker-images/ubuntu/18.04/Dockerfile - the install scripts are called here, but most settings are environment variables passed at build time.


### Manually Building Linux Docker Images

As an example, `docker-compose build ubuntu_18.04_OpenSSL_1_1_0-stable` would build Ubuntu 18.04 with OpenSSL 1.1.0 and all the other necessary prerequisites installed.
This tag is from the docker-compose file, under service.

If publishing these to ECR, setup aws-cli credentials, then authenticate to ECR:
- aws-cli version 1.0: `eval $(aws ecr get-login --no-include-email)`
- aws-cli version 2.0: `echo $(aws ecr get-login-password)|docker login --password-stdin --username AWS ${ACCOUNT_NUMBER}.dkr.ecr.${AWS_REGION}.amazonaws.com`
- be sure the tag is correct, with `docker iamges` it will look like: `${ACCOUNT_NUMBER}.dkr.ecr.${AWS_REGION}.amazonaws.com/linux-docker-images:ubuntu_18.04_OpenSSL_1_1_1-stable`
- push: `docker push ${ACCOUNT_NUMBER}.dkr.ecr.${AWS_REGION}.amazonaws.com/linux-docker-images:ubuntu_18.04_OpenSSL_1_1_1-stable`

## Windows

There is currently no support for automated building of Windows Docker images. For Windows, there is a base docker image with two additional layers created on top of the base for different versions of Visualcpp.
Because of the lack of automation for creating Windows images, not all dependencies are pre-installed installed (e.g.: OpenSSL), see codebuild/common-windows.bat for specifics.


### Manually Building Windows Docker Images and Uploading them to AWS Elastic Container Repository 
#### Prereqs for the build host
* EC2 Windows instance with Containers (must match CodeBuild hosts: 10.0.14393 build hosts as of this writing).
* Docker 
* AWS CLI

Run build.ps1:

    cd .\docker-images\windows
    powershell .\build.ps1

After the build finishes, you can run and test the image by running:

    docker run -it vs2015
      --or--
    docker run -it vs2017

To emulate the tests run by AWS CodeBuild, execute the following (note the version of VisualStudio installed):

    git clone -b v1.1.0 --depth 1 https://github.com/aws/aws-encryption-sdk-c.git
    cd aws-encryption-sdk-c\codebuild
    .\common-windows.bat -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON -G "Visual Studio 15 2017"

When you are satisfied the image is to your liking, simply exit the container.

#### Publishing the Windows Image

If you are publishing to your own account, update the `ECS_REPO` value in
`push.ps1`. You can find the correct URI in the AWS Console for your ECR
repository.

Once you have `ECS_REPO` set properly, and you have configured your Powershell
AWS CLI credentials correctly, simply _source_ push.ps1:

    . .\push.ps1

Note that because powershell CLI credentials are per-powershell-session, it's
important to use dot-sourcing if you use the `Set-AWSCredential` cmdlet to configure
your credentials. If you're using EC2 Instance Roles, then it's not strictly necessary
to dot-source the script.
